EIP-5269: ERC Interface Detection (#5269)
ethereum/EIPs: EIPS/eip-5269.md

}
```

2. Unless superseded by future EIPs, the `ercNumber` for any input greater than 2**32 = `0x100000000` in hex or `4294967296` in decimal MUST return `false` and are reserved for other type of interfaces. 

3. Optionally, implementing smart contract MAY implement the following enumerable inetrface

```solidity
interface IERC5269Enumberable is IERC5269 {
  function supportsTotalHumanReadableInterfaces(address caller) external view returns (uint256 numberOfInterface);
  function supportsHumanReadableInterfaceByIndex(uint256 index, address caller) external view returns (uint256 ercNumber);
}
```

For example an [EIP-721](./eip-721.md) compliant contract MAY be implemented as below

```solidity
interface ERC721 is IERC5269Enumberable {
  function supportsTotalHumanReadableInterfaces(address caller) external view returns (uint256 numberOfInterface) {
    return 3;
  }
  function supportsHumanReadableInterfaceByIndex(uint256 index, address caller) external view returns (uint256 ercNumber) {
    require(index < 3);
    if (index == 0) {
      return 20;
    } else if (index == 1) { 
      return 165;
    } else if (index == 2) {
      return 5269; 
    }
}
```

## Rationale

> 1. We simply return the eip numbers in an array reflecting the practice that an smart contract usually resemble more than one interface.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1. EIP numbers are returned in an array to reflect the practice that a smart contract usually implements more than one interface.
```

> 1. We simply return the eip numbers in an array reflecting the practice that an smart contract usually resemble more than one interface.

Reviewer: Wait, none of the functions even seem to return an array. Is this line from an earlier draft?

Author: Yes, still working on determining using array or just a Boolean

2. We didn't require the ordering of return value. And we only suggest but didn't require deduplication because it's cheaper to do such computation outside of chain.

> 3. Compared to [EIP-165](./eip-165.md), we also add an addition input of `address caller`, given the increasing popularity of proxy patterns such as those enabled by [EIP-1967](./eip-1967.md).

Reviewer: I'd include an answer to the question "why not use `msg.sender`?" in the rationale section.

Author: Thank you, that's a good way to answer it. Added a sentence

status: Draft
type: Standards Track
category: ERC
created: 2022-07-15
---

## Abstract
An interface that returns a list of EIP and other numbers, as a human-readable alternative to [EIP-165](./eip-165.md) which returns a hashed code of interface in a machine-readable manner.

## Motivation
1. Create a lower entry barrier of detecting interfaces for Dapp developer and Smart Contract developers.
2. Allow detecting different interfaces for different callers.
3. Potentially making it easier to work with ENS [EIP-137](./eip-137.md). For example, there was a proposal to record interface information on ENS. Having a human readable interface provides an easier way for smart contract to create such ENS domains easily.

## Specification
The key words “MUST”, “MUST NOT”, “REQUIRED”, “SHALL”, “SHALL NOT”, “SHOULD”, “SHOULD NOT”, “RECOMMENDED”, “MAY”, and “OPTIONAL” in this document are to be interpreted as described in RFC 2119.

1. Any compliant smart contract MUST implement the following interface

```solidity
interface IERC5269 {
  function supportsHumanReadableInterface(uint256 ercNumber, address caller) external view returns (boolean isSupported);
}
```

> For example any smart contract that is a IERC5629 MUST return `true` for input `{ercNumber: 5269, caller: <any>}`

Reviewer: Specifically in this case, you'll want to put it in a code span:

```suggestion
For example any smart contract that is an `IERC5629` MUST return `true` for input `{ercNumber: 5269, caller: <any>}`
```

```solidity
interface IERC5269Enumberable is IERC5269 {
  function supportsTotalHumanReadableInterfaces(address caller) external view returns (uint256 numberOfInterface);
  function supportsHumanReadableInterfaceByIndex(uint256 index, address caller) external view returns (uint256 ercNumber);
}
```

For example an [EIP-721](./eip-721.md) compliant contract MAY be implemented as below

```solidity
interface ERC721 is IERC5269Enumberable {
  function supportsTotalHumanReadableInterfaces(address caller) external view returns (uint256 numberOfInterface) {
    return 3;
  }
  function supportsHumanReadableInterfaceByIndex(uint256 index, address caller) external view returns (uint256 ercNumber) {
    require(index < 3);
    if (index == 0) {
      return 20;
    } else if (index == 1) { 
      return 165;
    } else if (index == 2) {
      return 5269; 
    }
}
```

## Rationale

1. We simply return the eip numbers in an array reflecting the practice that an smart contract usually resemble more than one interface.

2. We didn't require the ordering of return value. And we only suggest but didn't require deduplication because it's cheaper to do such computation outside of chain.

> 3. Compared to [
> 165](./eip-165.md), we also add an addition input of `address caller`, given the increasing popularity of proxy patterns such as those enabled by [EIP-1967](./eip-1967.md).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
3. Compared to [EIP-165](./eip-165.md), we also add an addition input of `address caller`, given the increasing popularity of proxy patterns such as those enabled by [EIP-1967](./eip-1967.md).
```

---
eip: 5269
title: Human Readable Interface Detection
description: An interface returning Human Readable Interface

> author: Zainan Victor Zhou (xinbenlv@)

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
author: Zainan Victor Zhou (@xinbenlv)
```

discussions-to: <URL>
status: Draft
type: Standards Track
category (*only required for Standards Track): ERC
created: 2022-07-15

> requires (*optional): <EIP number(s)>

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
requires: 165
```

Author: Not requiring 165

Reviewer 3: `requires` in this context means "this EIP references another EIP and to fully understand it you may need to read the referenced EIPs".  If you don't want to require 165, my recommendation would be to remove it from the abstract.  Generally speaking, I recommend authoring EIPs such that they stand alone without depending on the reader knowing about others EIPs that aren't hard requirements.  In this case, the abstract should just describe this EIP and simply not mention alternatives.

---

## Abstract
An interface returns list of ERC numbers and other numbers in the future, to make it human readable, as opposed to EIP-165 which returns a hashed code of interface in the machine readable manner.

> ## Motivation
> TODO 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
```
Remove placeholder

Author: Updated

## Specification
The key words “MUST”, “MUST NOT”, “REQUIRED”, “SHALL”, “SHALL NOT”, “SHOULD”, “SHOULD NOT”, “RECOMMENDED”, “MAY”, and “OPTIONAL” in this document are to be interpreted as described in RFC 2119.

> TODO 

Author: Updated

## Rationale

> TODO 

Author: Done

## Backwards Compatibility

> TODO 

Author: I removed backward compatibility section, if that's ok

> TODO 

Reviewer 2: No, it is not. All EIPs **must** have a backwards compatibility section, even if it is as simple as the one above.

> TODO 

Reviewer 3: For future reference: I usually allow `TODO` for sections like Backward Compatibility and Security Considerations for Draft EIPs.  These sections need to be filled in before Review, but it can be a helpful reminder to fill them with `TODO` initially so it is more obvious they aren't complete yet.

## Security Considerations

> All EIPs must contain a section that discusses the security implications/considerations relevant to the proposed change. Include information that might be important for security discussions, surfaces risks and can be used throughout the life cycle of the proposal. E.g. include security-relevant design decisions, concerns, important discussions, implementation-specific guidance and pitfalls, an outline of threats and risks and how they are being addressed. EIP submissions missing the "Security Considerations" section will be rejected. An EIP cannot proceed to status "Final" without a Security Considerations discussion deemed sufficient by the reviewers.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Needs discussion.
```

Author: Removed
